Verson control system -> It is a software tool that trake and manage changes to file over time , most commonly used for software devolpment . 
Types of Verson control system -> localized verson control system , distributed verson control system , centralized verson control system 
localized VCS ->It is manages and stores file changes on a single computer, saving history locally. It is best for individual projects since it lacks collaboration features and is vulnerable to data loss if the local machine fails. These systems work by storing changes as "patches" in a local database, allowing a user to revert to previous versions of a file.
distributed VCS ->It is a type of version control in which every developer has a complete local copy of the entire repository, including its full history. This allows developers to work offline, perform operations like committing, branching, and merging faster, and reduces the risk of data loss since there are multiple full backups. Git and Mercurial are popular examples of DVCS.  
centralized VCS->A centralized version control system (CVCS) uses a single central server to store all project files and their version history. Developers check out a copy of the files from this central repository, make changes locally, and then commit their changes back to the server.This model is often simpler to manage and provides a single source of truth, but it creates a single point of failure and requires a constant internet connection for most operations.
Git Commands - A Git command is an instruction given to the Git version control system to perform a specific action related to managing a project's source code or other files.
Commands are -1. git init -> The command git init is used to create an empty Git repository. After the git init command is used, a .git folder is created in the directory with some subdirectories. Once the repository is initialized, the process of creating other files begins.
2. git add -> Add command is used after checking the status of the files, to add those files to the staging area. Before running the commit command, "git add" is used to add any new or modified files.
3. git commit -> The commit command makes sure that the changes are saved to the local repository.The command "git commit –m <message>" allows you to describe what has happened and help others understand.
4. git status ->The git status command tells the current state of the repository. The command provides the current working branch. If the files are in the staging area, but not committed, it will be shown by the git status. Also, if there are no changes, it will show the message no changes to commit, working directory clean.
5. git config ->The git config command is used initially to configure the user.name and user.email. This specifies what email id and username will be used from a local repository.When git config is used with --global flag, it writes the settings to all repositories on the computer.
6. git push -> The command git push is used to transfer the commits or pushing the content from the local repository to the remote repository.The command is used after a local repository has been modified, and the modifications are to be shared with the remote team members